- They successfully retrieved the core and saved the barmies.
- The barmies scattered in the Mortuary.
- The party returned to Fiend's Salute Tavern.
- They encountered a talk between [[Skarn_Altheriel_Thitch.webp]] and [[Clarion the Guardian]] regarding the Coup back in their homeland, in Sylvania. A corrupted Wolf Lord has ascended to leadership under suspicious circumstances and begun replacing the minority of the guardinals with his kind. 
- They showed the [[Emberheart Core]] to [[Shafi Bin Ahmad Zin]]. This NPC has been suggested by Clarion. Their relational terms are not the best, but are trustworthy, Shafi being a Fated and Clarion a guardinal/Free League. In a past event they have cooperated under an endeavor that had to step aside their philosophical views on certain things. Clarion suggested that if the party wants to help somehow, they are more than welcomed. They can find them at the Fortress of Unyielding Resolve.
- Shafi won't betray them or reveal their secret to anyone. He's a research enthusiast and a mechanical genius when in comes to cogs. He mentioned that in order to host and exploit the power of the core, one must encapsulate it in an infernal iron device. The stone tablet that they bring had anti-magic properties to actually contain and make a place breathable in extreme hot temperatures. This stone comes directly from the Elemental Plane of Fire. Infernal Iron will transform the core from a heat source into a magical item, exerting its magical properties.
