
The two-storey structure of the Styx Oarsman squats on the edge of Heward’s Forks, a small square connecting the bend in Brandy Lane to the curving thoroughfare of Ironmonger Street. The dung covered statue that is set in the square gives the small court its name and provides the local avians with a favourite perch and latrine. The squawking of the executioner’s ravens that nest here particularly annoys the current doorman, **[[jarkman_vries_tiefling.png|Jarkman Vries]]** _(planar tiefling fighter [he/him] / Athar / NE )_, a surly cutter who is constantly chewing on one of his trademark Arborean cigars. Vries is known to enforce a strict “Lower Planars Only” policy unless garnished by a decent bribe, and will not let heavily armed parties, known proxies, baatezu, celestials, or disguised bashers in without a challenge unless vouched for by a regular patron or one of the staff. The tiefling is renowned for his irritability, the vituperous curses he levels at proxies and priests and his unique choice of weaponry. Those attempting to barge inside have been known to receive a point blank volley of red steel shot from the tiefling’s magical arquebus—a fine steel snaplock which bears the stamp of the “Royal Cormyr Arsenal” and the symbol of Gond Wondermaker pressed into its engraved silver butt-guard. Where or how the tiefling obtained such a weapon is a mystery, but few doubt its effectiveness as a debating style.

In addition to Jarkman’s presence at the door, the tavern has formidable security in the form of the excrementally-spoken **[[gennick_mesmer_cambion.png|Gennick the Mesmer]]** _(planar cambion [he/him] / CE)_, the so called “Colourful Cambion”. With his entrancing rainbow robe and the ability to call upon the vrock imprisoned within his iron staff, the cambion is given a degree of respect by his race, despite his lesser status as a semi-fiend. Gennick’s whims, backed up by the **Oinean** steel glaive wielded by Xaedo, rule the tavern’s main floor and ensure that the peace is kept. Both the Hardheads and the Red Death keep out of the Oarsman by unspoken agreement - after all, which barmy wants to take on a tavern full of bubbled-up fiends? The tavern’s most popular tanar’ri delicacy, the Styx Snack, usually fluctuates in availability but always seems to be in plentiful supply the week after a paladin fails to “cleanse the foul den of fiendishness that is referred to as the Styx Oarsman”.

One glance around the darkened common room confirms the tavern’s sinister reputation as the meeting place for the various Lower Planar races. Apart from a weak candle illuminating the bar area, a visitor can only make out the shadowy outlines of the menagerie of fiends that use this establishment as their local watering-hole.
**[[quinsy_styx_oarsman.png|Quinsy]]**, the proprietor, works the taps and shouts the food orders.  
[[lathly_dim_fomorian.png|Lathly Dim]], the deformed Sinker, is the barman of Styx Oarsman.

As a place overlooked by Sigil’s Wheels of Law, the Oarsman is an excellent place to conduct illegal business—if one is prepared for the unpredictable, traitorous dealings of the tanar’ri. Several fiends and cross-traders conduct their business in the dark subterranean booths of the Oarsman’s lower floor or around the equally infamous Skiff Table near the taps on the main floor: Of course in the Oarsman, one can never tell who or what they are really dealing with…

There’s also the occasional visit of the infamous tanar’ri information broker, **Rule-of-Three**, holding court over the seekers of his knowledge from his stool by the bar. However, he and Gennick do not suffer each other gracefully, but so far there has not been a major confrontation. Like Gennick, the marquis-cambion’s mixed blood provokes strong views from the tanar’ri that take pride in being purely Abyssal bred, but the sage’s rumoured dealings with the baatezu are beginning to make some of the other patrons feel unsavoury towards him—well, even more unsavoury than they already are.

Those in search of an exotic toxin or rare venom soon hear about the unique poisons to be bought at the back door of the Oarsman. [[cookie_comstock.png|"Cookie" Comstock]], the vaporughu spawned gour of the notorious tavern, is also a skilled apothecary and minor alchemist and augments his cooking with his toxicological knowledge. It is rumoured that the meals Comstock cooks for the patrons are the inspiration for his unique toxins—all food served at the Oarsman is catered to a tanar’ric clientele, resulting in several fatal poisonings amongst less fiendish diners in the past.

Not all the fiends at the Oarsman are there to turn a pile of jink; as a respected neutral ground in the ever raging Blood War, the tavern is a popular kip for fiends and their associates to relax, socialise and savour a meal that brings back memories of home. This is not to say there are never disagreements or brawls, but the tanar’ri, yugoloths, gehrehleths and tieflings that comprise the majority of the clientele respect the tavern’s unspoken code of behaviour.

Many notable fiends about Sigil have been spotted in the booths or at the main tables, in their cups or just soaking up the atmosphere. Even the bloods and high-ups from the Lady's Ward have been known to drop into the tavern to soak up the ambience. **Noshteroth of the Umber Scales**, the high priest of the **Temple of the Abyss**, is partial to Comstock’s _Retriever Pie à la Viper Tree blood sauce_ and infrequently dines in one of the lower booths with his consort Noxana the Unwilling. They are occasionally joined by other members of the temple staff, but are always guarded by a brace of Noshteroth’s rutterkin retainers to ensure that they remain undisturbed.